Dark Phoenix is landing in theaters
everywhere probably I guess followed by
New Mutants eventually but since this is
maybe definitely the end of the Fox
x-men timeline we're going to cram the
entire x-men series as quickly as
possible but just the core movies no
spin-offs no logan's no Deadpool's and
definitely no x-men origins Wolverine
I'm not rewatching it and you can't make
me Oh
[Music]
as mm x-men opens the world has become
aware of mutants individuals with
incredible superpowers due to genetic
mutations they've had from birth the US
government is considering a new law that
would force them to register and
identify themselves publicly what is it
the mutant community has to hide I
wonder that makes them so afraid to
identify themselves most mutants think
this is a terrible idea including the
powerful psychic Charles Xavier and his
old friend Erik Lehnsherr whose
abilities allowed to move and control
metals with his mind don't give up on
the Merrick we also meet runaway teen
mutant Marie aka rogue who soaks up the
life force of anyone she touches
directly in the case of mutants she
borrows their abilities while on the
road and beautiful scene at Canada rogue
meets up with another mutant drifter my
name's Luke he's ex-military and his
mutation allows him to quickly heal from
any injury he was also the subject of
some largely unexplained military
experiments that wiped his memory clean
and also provided him with an adamantium
skeleton and surgically grafted to his
entire skeleton and claws Rogan Logan
are attacked by a mutant named
saber-tooth and saved by two other
mutants codenamed storm and Cyclops
those two work for Charles Xavier who
runs a school and refuge in upstate New
York for young mutants that show promise
anonymity is a Newton's first chance
against the world's hostility the school
side hustle is housing a mutant super
team called the x-men storm has the
power to control the weather and deliver
atrocious one-liners do you know what
happens to a toad when it's struck by
lightning same thing that happens to
everything else
Cyclops shoots a powerful energy beam
from his eyes and his girlfriend Jean
Grey is both psychic and telekinetic
Logan has chemistry with Jean which
causes some tension with Cyclops whose
real name is Scott Summers stay away
from that girl
Charles's friend Eric who also calls
himself Magneto has an evil plan that
involves kidnapping rogue transferring
all of his powers to her and then using
her to power a machine that will turn
world leaders into mutants steering UN
summit but you don't really need to
worry about that okay
just know that Magneto also has a
shape-shifting mutant that helps him
who's named mystique who can disguise
herself as anyone you know people like
you are the reason I was afraid to go to
school as a child and that Magneto's
plan fails but nonetheless gives rogue
her trademark streak of white hair like
x-men ends with Logan aka Wolverine
taking off to investigate his past
there's an abandoned military compound
and mystique posing as a u.s. senator to
kill the anti mutant Registration Act
before it passes and Magneto jail and a
plastic prison vowing to escape and get
you next time gadget next time the wars
still coming charms and I intend to
fight it x2 the one with more x-men
introduces a new villain who's actually
an old villain military scientist
William Stryker he's the guy that many
years before turned an unassuming
Canadian with a silly haircut into the
killing machine with a fabulous singing
voice that we call Wolverine you're an
animal then
you're an animal now he's also the guy
that admitted the plastic jail they keep
magneto in but with Mystique's help the
old guy escapes anyway beautiful woman
especially one who's interested in you
who did he just wisecrack to that guy's
dead
meanwhile Jean finds that her powers are
increasing but they're also becoming
harder to control in the mutant world
this is known as foreshadowing also she
definitively chooses Scott over Logan so
end of love triangle do you or is it
question mark okay back to strike using
his mutant son Jason's ability to
mentally control other mutants Stryker
forces a teleporter named Nightcrawler
to pull off a daring attack on the White
House he also organizes a nighttime raid
on Xavier school driving the x-men
underground oh hey look Colossus
momentarily strikers big plan involves
cerebro the complex machine Xavier uses
to psychically track mutants all around
the globe strikers built an exact
replica of cerebro and using Jason's
mind control powers convinces the
professor to locate and kill every
mutant on earth it's time magneto shows
up just in time to save the day but
wouldn't you know that tricky trickster
just reverses the instructions and tells
Xavier to start killing all the humans
he is totally the Loki of this franchise
can't trust him storm and Nightcrawler
stop the professor just in time
Wolverine and Magneto kind of tag team
killing Stryker feel and magneto escapes
along with mystique and a former Xavier
student the flame chucking pyro while
trying to free Scott from Jason's
psychic grasp jeans out of control
powers accidentally blow a hole in a
nearby dam just as it's about to flood
the entire valley Jean sacrifices
herself to save the others I know what
I'm doing this is the only way
oh and just to make sure we definitely
get that they're doing Dark Phoenix next
right before she gets hit by the water
flames appear around her body also we
see the outline of a fiery Phoenix under
the lake these are not subtle films the
president almost declares outright war
on mutants but the x-men prove that
mutants are totally safe by breaking
into the White House good morning mr.
president and exposing the striker
affair how did you get this well let's
just say I know a little girl who can
walk through walls
yeah then Wolverine just outright
threatens our nation's chief executive
we'll be watching wait I thought these
were the friendly mutants they totally
pose a threat 2006's x-men The Last
Stand was the first attempt to adapt the
iconic Dark Phoenix saga written by the
director of the new Dark Phoenix cool as
the film opens Scott's hearing jeans
voice in his head so he ventures back to
alkali lake and finds the gene is still
alive but somehow changed she's lost
control of her psychic abilities
entirely and has become a real danger to
herself and others by the time Logan and
storm arrives Scott is dead and Jean is
unconscious with no memory of what
happened meanwhile a pharmaceutical
company named Worthington Industries has
developed a cure for mutation their
affliction is nothing more than a
disease magneto naturally sees this as a
threat make no mistake my brothers they
were forced that cure upon us and uses
it as a pretense to recruit a mutant
army the Brotherhood this gives the
movie a chance to introduce a whole
bunch of mutants that they have no way
to actually use oh also jugger nuts
their magneto recruits juggernaut though
unfortunately during the prison break
mystique is shot by a needle containing
the cure stripping her of her powers I'm
sorry man
you're not on the person in both Magneto
and Professor Xavier visit Jean at her
childhood home to convince her to come
with them back for your own good Jean
but when the discussion gets heated Jean
starts to lose control and eventually
she uses her powers to completely
vaporize the professor it certainly
seems like he's dead he may be gone but
his teachings live on through us but a
post-credits scene reveals that at the
last moment he transferred his
consciousness to a comatose body being
observed by his friend dr. Moira
MacTaggert
oh yeah okay anyway Jean ends up going
with Magneto
[Applause]
we have whose plan involves moving the
Golden Gate Bridge so that he could
storm Worthington's lab on Alcatraz
Island and destroy the cure for good
several x-men including mutant diplomat
and Frazer beast also travel to Alcatraz
to help defend the lab juggernut says
his famous line of the Iceman defeats
pyro and A Song of Ice and Fire trial by
combat jean slash phoenix vaporizes a
whole bunch of people with her mind and
magneto gets stabbed with cure soaked
needles removing his mutant power
ultimately Logan manages to get close
enough to Jean to stab her with his
claws ending the fight see
Jeanne dies and that's that the end of
the original accident franchise and time
to wait he can still move the metal
chess pieces so he's not cured well what
the hell is this movie about when a
premier franchise hits a wall there are
only two real options prequel or reboot
2011's x-men first classes kind of both
as it takes us back into x-men history
while also introducing an all-new cast
we open in 1944 in Westchester County
New York the wealthy young psychic
Charles Xavier discovers a midnight
intruder in his kitchen it looks like
his mom but it's actually another mutant
the shape-shifting Raven who will later
become mystique Charles and Raven become
fast friends meanwhile in a
concentration camp Nazi scientist
sebastian shaw discovers powerful young
mutant erik lensherr who will later
become magneto shaw finds that the key
to unlocking young Erik's ability to
control metal is to bring out his rage
and fear so he kills the boy's mother in
front of him then subjects him the years
of cruel experimentation that's a very
Nazi thing to do
flash-forward to the very groovy year of
1962 it's a mutation it's a very groovy
mutation Charles is now a PhD student
studying archaeology I'm just kidding
it's mutation he studies mutation Xavier
is recruited by CIA agent Moira
MacTaggert she becomes a doctor later I
guess to help the US government
understand the whole mutant situation we
had to be the CIA's and the mutant
division yes they find an ally and
Oliver Platt who doesn't get a name in
the movie so we'll just call him Oliver
Platt once at Oliver Platts facility
they meet another mutant who works for
him the brilliant scientific genius and
big ugly foot hammer Hank McCoy one of
McCoys greatest inventions is a
prototype of cerebro that Charles begins
using to locate and recruit other
mutants call it cerebro among the
mutants Charles locates our angel but
not that angel who can fly and spit
fiery acid balls banshee who can create
sonic waves with his throat Darwin who
can adapt to any environment or
condition and Alex slash havoc who can
fire off destructive energy rings
addition to cerebro we also get the
origin of the x-jet the x-mansion Hank
serum that transforms them into beasts
Magneto's helmet and probably some other
stuff too we should think of code names
okay that's probably enough callbacks
you should be Professor X and you should
be Magneto
yep we get it it's a prequel next thing
you know he'll be going Gould all right
you need to stop at the same time
grown-up eric is on a tireless quest for
revenge hunting down Nazis and searching
the globe for Sebastian Shaw
and what should have been his own
spin-off movie it turns out Shaw is
himself a mutant whose energy absorbing
power prevents him from aging he now
runs a covert mutant organization called
the Hellfire Club which is basically the
Brotherhood but groovier there's not a
fortress that could keep us out that's
Emma Frost a powerful psychic who can
also transform her entire body into
solid diamonds she's partnered up with
Shaw Shaw and his group have a plan to
spark a nuclear war between the US and
the Soviet Union hoping that in the
aftermath mutants will rule the world
unopposed
that sounds sufficiently comic book II
to fight back Erik Charles and the new
recruits will all have to work together
so as his army we need ours Erik forms a
bond with Raven encouraging her to stop
hiding her true face from the world he
wants society to accept you you can't
even accept yourself but also gets
locked in the first of many many many
many chess games and disagreements with
his new pal Charles of fearless and that
fear will turn to hatred ultimately Erik
stops Shaw's planned by plucking his
submarine out of the ocean to expose his
involvement as a puppet master and
de-escalate the conflict then magneto
pushes a Nazi coin that Shaw gave him as
a kid
through his skull that's gonna leave a
mark
sadly just when all seems resolved both
the American and Soviet ships fire
missiles at the mutants fearing that
which they don't understand when will we
learn humanity right folks Erik now in
full-on magneto mode sends the missiles
back to the ships that fired them
threatening thousands of lives
Charles tackles them and Moira shoots at
him to stop the attack but as he's
deflecting the bullets Erik accidentally
sends one right into Charles's spine
paralyzing him from the waist down
because
prequel after the battle Raven shocks
her friends by teaming up with Eric and
the remnants of the Hellfire Club
Charles erases Moira's memories of what
happened so she can't rat out the new
mutant school he's opening in his
childhood home but not before she
imparts one last piece of information
your x-men it's our land aside of that
okay seriously please just stop it
Days of Future past unites the cast of
the two x-men eras and opens in the year
2023 avatar 8 is hitting theaters
nationwide and a protracted war has
wiped out nearly all mutants and any
humans willing to help them those that
remain are in hiding hunted by robots
known as sentinels which can adapt to
counteract any mutants powerset not
Iceman from a hideout in China the
surviving x-men formulate a bold plan
they're going to use mutant kitty prides
powers to send Logan's mind back in time
to a pivotal moment in 1973 that was
here that mystique assassinated the
inventor sentinels military scientists
Bulevar Trask mystique was captured in a
study of her DNA sparked massive
innovations in Sentinel technology plus
the shooting turned everyday Americans
against mutants for good so Logan
quantum leaps back into his old 1973
body when he still had bone claws his
mission is to find the seventy three
versions of Professor X and Magneto and
get their help in finding mystique
before she kills Trask it's a person who
simply was you most unfortunately
Charles has become an alcoholic recluse
he uses the same serum that Unleashed
Hanks beast powers to restore feeling in
his legs but it shuts down his psychic
ability oh and magneto is being kept in
a concrete cell underneath the Pentagon
for assassinating JFK but he's totally
innocent you guys the Buddha curved
because I was trying to save him Charles
Hank and Logan free Eric with the help
of a young superfast mutant named Peter
maksimov the Quicksilver not played by
kick-ass and the one scene from this
movie you probably don't need to be
reminded about it's also sort of implied
that like in the comics magneto is his
dad they told me you control metal my
mom was new a guy who could do that
Xavier Sobers up stopped using Hanks
serum and regains his powers he does saw
cerebro and uses it to track down his
old pal Raven but she won't listen to
him I need you to come home I know what
I need to do he also uses Logan's mind
as a conduit to speak with his older
self so basically a pretty weird day for
everyone involved humanity does this to
us
magneto takes control of the Sentinel
army himself using railroad tracks you
know that old trick he then steals a
baseball stadium and uses it to cordon
off the White House he sends out a live
TV message calling for a war between
mutants and humans you're right and
plans to kill President Nixon all of our
Trask and everyone else hiding out in
the White House bunker mystique who's
also there planning to kill Trask stops
magneto just in time Charles talks are
out of the assassination a key decision
which succeeds in changing the future so
remember how we summarized those first
three x-men movies yeah forget all that
stuff
Logan wakes up in a totally new future
where Jean is alive and well and still
dating Scott you
a lot of catching up to do professor X
is gonna fill Logan in on everything
that happened since 1973 so you're
probably gonna want to brew a pot of
coffee because that could take a while
but let's back up a bit
to 3600 BC that's when a very powerful
but very old mutant named in sabah noir
ruled ancient egypt with an iron fist he
attempted to move his consciousness into
a different body but the ritual was
interrupted and the pyramid he was in
was destroyed in the process burying in
Sobhan or beneath the rubble then for
thousands of years nothing happened I
mean at least nothing that matters for
the x-men okay jump to 1983 ad Raven is
still underground helping out mutants
however she can and she's become
something of a legend in the mutant
world she's my hero I want to be like
for example Raven saves young
Nightcrawler from having to be a cage
fighter in East Berlin because no one
wants to be a cage fighter in East
Berlin remember havoc alex summers from
x-men first class while his younger
brother Scott is in high school when one
day all of a sudden he develops a major
case of the laser eyes
[Music]
so of course Alex brings him to Xavier
school which is where he meets another
newbie the powerful psychic Jean Grey
sorry to break it to you but you're not
the biggest freak in the school Xavier
is encouraging Jean to unleash your
powers because sure why not what could
go wrong but she's hesitant dark power
inside and it's growing I had the
strangest feeling of deja vu meanwhile
international criminal erik lensherr has
started a new life with a new identity
as a Polish factory worker named Henrik
he's even got a wife and a daughter Nina
which is a bad sign because we can't
have a contented and happy Magneto
naturally when he saves a fellow factory
worker using his mutant powers his
secret is revealed the police come for
him and both his wife and daughter are
killed with a single arrow that is not
easy to do magneto takes it well
and what you know this happens just as a
weird cult it you know what I'm just
gonna sit back and let CIA agent Moira
MacTaggert do the heavy lifting for a
minute these guys believe that the first
mutant was born tens of thousands of
years ago and they believe he will rise
again if he had the ability to transfer
his consciousness from body to body some
of these may have been the bodies of
mutants enabling him to take their
powers amassing various abilities over
the years and wherever this being was he
always had 4 protectors he would imbue
the powers thanks Moira on the street
the revived in saben or meets a mutant
named storm who uses her whether
controlling powers to steal from the
local marketplace and he saves her life
she becomes his first disciple then he
recruits angel the guy who was cage
fighting night crawler olivia munn acai
lock and magneto who's in a dark place
following the death of his family
completes the quartet you don't know
your own strength but I do
Raven hears the news about Eric's family
and returns to Xavier school hoping they
can team up to track him down
Charles tries to use cerebro but this
actually allows their enemy in sub you
know what apocalypse I'm just gonna call
them apocalypse anyway apocalypse is
connected to Charles through cerebro and
gains access to all the minds in the
world and releases every nuclear weapon
into space just like Superman for to
stop him from doing any more damage
havoc destroys cerebro which in turn
blows up the entire x-mansion Peter
Maximoff looking for his father magneto
arrives just in time to save everyone
and it's another delightful Quicksilver
scene everybody
god these are so much fun anyway havoc
is dead apocalypse and magneto managed
to sneak in quickly and kidnap Xavier
basically he has a portal gun just
picture a portal gun or the space stone
a younger version of William Stryker
remember him from x2 the guy who made
Wolverine he and his team round up all
the mutants outside the mansion and take
them to alkali lake his Canadian secret
evil laboratory that is except Jean
Nightcrawler and Scott who stowaway in
secret and rescue their friends they get
a little help from cameo guest star
Wolverine who's being held at the
facility under the name Weapon X that is
until gene sets him free
that's the last week shader that guy
anyway so apocalypses big plan is to
apocalypse specifically he wants magneto
to pull all the metal out of the ground
cleansing the earth of everyone but the
most powerful mutants meanwhile he'll
transfer into Xavier 's body to gain his
power and enter everyone on Earth's mind
clean and easy Quicksilver and Raven
appealed Eric's better nature you have
more family than you know while everyone
else fights off apocalypse and his
various minions storm eventually
switches sides and you know good for her
she got there plus Eric finally comes
around when he has to prevent apocalypse
from killing mystique Charles tries to
fight off apocalypse in a dreamscape
brain battle but he's losing badly until
Jeanne steps in and helps him out this
unleashes the dark power inside her
known as the Baba Yaga no wait no that's
the boogeyman that's John wick this is
the Phoenix when apocalypse destroyed
Sai locks links off looking guilty like
when you come home and your dog ripped
apart the throw pillow magneto and Jean
used their powers to rebuild the school
Charles who always had a crush on Moira
gives her the memories from first class
that he deleted back because he was
starting to feel like Moby no seriously
we used to date it was during the Cuban
Missile Crisis magneto takes off again
but not before he and Charles redo a
memorable bit from the very first x-men
movie of pity and mystique trains a
lineup of new recruits to fight
sentinels in the very first danger room
finally there's a post-credits scene
setting up Nathaniel Essex for a sequel
that will definitely never happen so
there you have it and if I'm being
honest it's probably more than you need
to know before seeing x-men Dark Phoenix
2 back in action any questions yeah
thousand I mean really this movie spent
most of their time sending up Ravens
character and if you've seen the
trailers for Dark Phoenix that might not
have been time well spent
however hopefully your time on this
crammed it was well-spent as we save you
the hours you would need to re-watch all
of the x-men movies hours that you can
now spend revisiting the Wolverine well
thanks for watching we'll see you next
time